In this demo, we'll do a whirlwind tour of client-side Hyper-V.
Entire courses exist covering Hyper-V.
As a matter of fact, I'm going to give you a reference to my friend,
Jason Helmick's, Pluralsight course at the conclusion of this module.
But first of all, as long as you're running an appropriate edition of Windows,
I'm running Enterprise edition.
Of course, that brings up the question,
how can you know what edition of Windows you're running.
There are many ways.
I'm going to do a Windows key+R to open the Run box and type winver.
Winver is short for Windows version and it looks like here we can see,
I don't know if you can see this, it gives us build and version numbers.
That's not what we want.
We'll learn about that in a couple of modules when we do installation,
but it says the Windows 10 Enterprise operating system.
Okay, so that's one way to do it.
Another way,
you can right-click Start and use your
Administrative menu here and go to System.
This opens the system, what used to be the system Control Panel,
now it's the system setting.
And if we scroll down, we can see under Windows Specifications,
Windows 10 Enterprise.
So long story short, enterprise certainly has Client Hyper-V.
I'm going to open Start and type Hyper-V and it
looks like I have Hyper-V Manager.
If you don't see that icon, then you need to turn on that optional feature.
You notice that by typing Hyper-V we have Settings,
turn Windows features on and off.
Another thing you could do is open up Cortana,
actually, let me try Cortana here.
Windows features.
Yep, tells you right off the bat, turn Windows features on and off Control Panel.
And remember,
you can make use of these filters when you're using
Cortana where you can look at documents,
web, applications,
and you can get to all of your filter settings by
dropping down the filters list.
But the Windows features old school, this is classic Control Panel dialog box,
allows you actually if you want to uninstall Internet Explorer 11,
you can.
And right above it, we have Hyper-V.
So I've gone through the process of checking all these boxes and
the reason I checked all the boxes is because we definitely need
not only the platform components, but the Management Tools.
And notice that we get not only the Graphical User Interface Management Tool,
but also the Windows PowerShell module.
Now you will need to restart your computer in order to have that go into effect.
And just because it's here and it reminded me of it,
Internet Explorer 11 is installed by default,
and sure enough, if you type, again, I'm going to use Cortana.
Internet Explorer, here it is,
and it looks quite a bit like Internet Explorer 10,
if you've used previous versions,
and it's here for backward compatibility for sites
that just don't run well under Edge.
As a matter of fact,
let me go back to Edge for a second and if you find that a
page is not displaying well in Edge,
you can open the Settings menu and choose Open with Internet Explorer and see
if you have a better experience loading that page there.
Okay.
I'm intentionally weaving all of these different features together because it's
important that you have an integrated grasp of Windows 10 and to be able to go
from tool to tool option to option seamlessly.
It's going to be a lot of initially memorization,
but then muscle memory and that's going to allow if you're in a support role,
a technical support role,
that's going to allow you to be more mindful and your brain will
be more free to pay attention to your customer,
the person you're helping, to really listen to what they're telling you.
Okay.
So assuming you've enabled the Hyper-V and restarted rather your computer,
you can come and open it up, Hyper-V and it's Hyper-V Manager is the desktop app.
It uses the Microsoft Management console and it looks like I've
already created a virtual machine that's powered off.
Huh, well that's cool.
Before you start creating virtual machines though,
you'll want to configure your environment,
and if you right-click your computer name,
you have various options,
Hyper-V Settings and then something called Virtual Switch Manager,
and SAN Manager.
Let's just go to Hyper-V Settings.
The major things here that I want you to be aware of,
you may want to change the location for your virtual
hard disks in your virtual machines.
Your C drive, for instance, is used by default and that may be space constrained.
You may have a much bigger data drive.
So you'll come into Hyper-V Settings and you can change the paths.
Many of these other options, let me see,
you might want to change the mouse release key.
When you click inside a virtual machine,
it captures your mouse and then the mouse movements you make in Windows
10 will be reflected in the virtual machine and then you'll need to
choose whatever key combination you want to use here to release the
mouse back to your hardware host, okay.
Now as far as creating a virtual machine,
you can go in a new virtual machine and you step through a wizard process
and the main thing to remember here besides just giving it a name and
determining where you want to store the files,
those files can become several gigabytes in size
depending upon what you're doing.
The virtual machines can run Generation 1,
which is an older model, Generation 2, which is the current model.
Generally speaking, unless you have a reason to choose generation 1,
for instance, if you have Microsoft Azure as part of your job description,
in that case, you'll want to go gen 1, but otherwise,
I'd go gen 2 to make sure you've got the latest and greatest.
Remember that these virtual machines consume system
resources from your Windows 10 host.
So if you have 32 GB of RAM on your Win 10 box and you're going to
create a Windows 10 virtual machine for sandboxing,
you'll want to give it an amount of startup memory that is
not going to make things painfully slow.
A Gig is a little low.
I would say 2048 MB, which is 2 GB of RAM is a good startup point.
Now dynamic memory means that Hyper-V will only give the virtual machine
enough memory to do its job and that's good if you're system,
that is if your Windows 10 hardware host is already a bit constrained for RAM.
The switch process,
the switch feature in Hyper-V is how you determine
where your virtual machine exists, in other words,
do you want your virtual machine to go out onto the internet.
Do you want your virtual machine to appear on your
local area network as another machine.
It's beyond our scope to get really into the switch system here so I'm just
going to choose the default switch that Microsoft gives us.
You're asked to give an optional name to the virtual hard disk file.
You're not actually using a full hardware hard disk,
although, technically you can.
Instead, the entire VM environment is going to be contained in a.
VHD or.
VHDX file.
Generation 2 VMs using the VHDX file format,
and although it defaults to 127 GB, that represents the maximum size.
It's actually going to be,
that is the file will only be as large as the data you're actually storing,
and I find on a Windows 10 box you can get up to 15-20 GB pretty easily,
so you'll want to make sure you're storing your VM disks
on a good drive that has lots of space.
As far as how to install the operating system,
almost always, you'll want to go the route of an image file,
a.
iso disk image and I'll go to browse and I happen to have one on my
desktop for the latest and greatest Windows 10 version.
These ISO files are software representations of DVDs,
and as such, they're pretty big, about 4.
1 GB it looks like for this Windows 10 file and this is going
to behave as if it's an optical disk inserted into the media
drive of a real live computer.
You see?
So we can finish,
it's going to create all of the virtual assets of that virtual
machine and then we can right-click and go to Settings and
make tweaks to any or the above.
If you want to change the RAM allocation,
let's say I only want it 512 MB, that's not very smart,
but I'm going to do it just for this case.
If you want to give the VM more processor ability,
you can give it more access to your hardware host and go on from there.
Again, we don't need to go too far down this rabbit hole for this level,
but know that in our Pluralsight library,
we have plenty of training available.
I'm not sure if this is a real virtual machine or if it's orphaned.
I'm going to right-click it and click Start just to see.
And if you look down below,
this little preview window gives you an idea of what's
happening in that virtual machine.
You can always double left-click it to create a console connection to it.
It looks like it's trying to start.
Like I said,
I don't remember if I actually installed an operating
system or if this is an empty VM.
It looks like this is an empty VM, it's not doing anything, that's fine.
I'm going to click the turn off.
There is shut down and turn off.
Shut down is the graceful way to stop a VM.
Turn off is where you're just going to essentially flip the power switch and
there is nothing on that machine obviously that I want to save.
So this is a really quick introduction to Hyper-V.
The good news is that we're going to revisit Hyper-V when we do Windows 10 installation in a couple more modules.